Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Follow-up to
Translation and Validation of the
4-CTSQ-D

Corresponding Author
Prof. Dr. Michael Zehetleitner
Catholic University Eichstätt-Ingolstadt
Allgemeine Psychologie II / Cognitive Psychology II
Ostenstraße 25
85072 Eichstätt, Germany
E-Mail: michael.zehetleitner@ku.de

1
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

T1 Title
Follow-Up to the Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

T2 Contributors
Prof. Dr. Michael Zehetleitner (https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3363-2680)
Johannes Käufl, Roxane Köhler, Elias Kohlschütter, Theresa Oster, Kristin Waldmanstetter

T3 Date of Preregistration
December, 11 2025; before start of data collection.

T4 Versioning information
This is a follow-up to the preregistration
Zehetleitner, M., Käufl, J., Köhler, R., Kohlschütter, E., Oster, T., & Waldmannstetter, K. (2025).
Translation of the 4-CTSQ and validation of the 4-CTSQ-D. PsychArchives.
https://doi.org/10.23668/psycharchives.16504

T5 Identifier
N.A.

T6 Estimated duration of project
December 2025 – January 2026

T7 IRB Status
The Ethics Committee of the Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt has approved the present
project (ID: 056-2021).

T8 Conflict of Interest Statement
There are no conflicts of interest.

T9 Keywords
Thinking styles, dual-process theories, analytic thinking, intuitive thinking, 4-CTSQ, german translation, cognitive reflection, dual-process theories,

T10 Data accessibility statement and planned repository
The data will be available for download (https://psycharchives.org) and can be used for all purposes (public use).

T11 Code availability
The code and material will be available for download (https://psycharchives.org) and can be used
for all purposes (public use).

T12 Optional: Standard lab practices
N.A.

2
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Abstract
A1 Background
The 4-CTSQ represents a new approach to assess and differentiate human thinking better than it
has been done in previous science. In contrast to the one-dimensional differentiation of thinking,
based on the classical dual-process theory (Evans & Stanovich, 2013), Newton et al. assume a
multidimensional differentiation of thinking styles, based on more modern dual-process theories
(Newton et al., 2024; Pennycook et al., 2015; Thompson, 2009). The four thinking styles were determined by means of an exploratory factor analysis (AOT, CMT, PIT and PET) and the 4-CTSQ
was subsequently created from this (Newton et al., 2024).

A2 Objectives and Research questions
First, the 4-CTSQ will be translated into German. In addition, the questionnaire will be validated by
the regression between the different thinking styles and religious beliefs, paranormal beliefs, empathy, vaccination attitudes, actual behavior and the assessment of a moral dilemma. The focus of
this study is the criterion validity (concurrent validity).

A3 Participants
A random sample of German participants will be recruited. The questionnaire will be sent out as an
anonymous, non-personalized link on various platforms. Furthermore, the survey will be distributed
and conducted in the personal environment of the authors (students).

A4 Study method
The online survey consists of German translations of the 4-CTSQ questionnaire (Newton et al.,
2024), an extended version of the CRT (based on Frederick, 2005; Newton et al, 2024; Thomson
& Oppenheimer, 2016), and an adapted version of the Heuristics and Biases battery (Toplak et al.,
2011).

3
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Introduction
I1 Background
This addendum builds on the original preregistration, which provided the theoretical background
on thinking styles, outlined limitations of dual-process approaches, and introduced the 4-Component Thinking Style Questionnaire (4-CTSQ) as a multidimensional measure of intuitive and analytical tendencies. That preregistration also detailed our goal of translating and validating the German
4-CTSQ (4-CTSQ-D) using the TRAPD procedure and multiple external constructs. Here, we add a
replication of the CRT–4-CTSQ association because our prior validation sample was highly academic and likely more familiar with the CRT; full theoretical rationale and methodological background are available in the original preregistration.

Aim of this study
The aim of this study is to reinvestigate the relationship between the 4-CTSQ-D and the CRT in a
sample which is less academic than in the validation study.

I2 Objectives and research questions
Determine connections between self-assessment of one's thinking style and actual behavior (CRT).
What are the connections between the thinking styles and actual behavior (CRT; heuristic and biases)?

I3 Predictions (hypotheses)
Replication expectations:
Based on the results of the Newton et al. study, expectations arise that
- AOT is a predictor for CRT and HB (positive)
- PIT is a predictor for CRT and HB (negative)
- PET is a predictor for CRT and HB (positive)

I4 Exploratory research questions
None.

4
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Method
M1 Time point of registration
Preregistration before data collection.

M2 Use of pre-existing data
No existing data is used.

M3 Sample size, power, and precision
In Newton et al. (2023) investigated the predictive power of the thinking style subscales for the CRT
in study 9 with 375 participants. We adopt a sequential design (along the lines of Schönbrodt et al.,
2016). Minimum sample size will be 200 and maximal sample size 400. After 200 participants are
collected, the Bayesian multiple linear regression will be calculated. If there is credible evidence for
two thinking style subscales to predict CRT and two thinking style subscales to predict HB performance (i.e. BFincl>3), data collection will be terminated. If not, a further batch of 50 participants will
be collected. This procedure terminates if the maximal sample size of 400 is reached.

M4 Participant recruitment, selection, and compensation
(a) Methods of recruitment
A panel (bilendi & respondi, London, UK) were commissioned to collect a sample of German participants (N between 200 and 400, see M3). The questionnaire was sent via an anonymous, nonpersonal link.

(b) Exclusion criteria
Participants are excluded who
did not accept the declaration of consent
did not complete the questionnaire in full
did not answer “Stimme eher nicht zu” at the attention check (“Bitte wählen Sie die Antwortoption “Stimme eher nicht zu” aus, um zu zeigen, dass sie aufmerksam lesen”) (Check
= 0), - did not answer ‘Strongly disagree’ at the attention check (‘Please select the answer
option ’Strongly disagree‘ to show that you read attentively’) (Check = 0)
Participants who indicate that they have used aids (e.g., search engine or large language model),
will also be excluded.
-

(c) details of any stratification sampling used
Stratified random sampling is not used.

(d) Planned participant drop-out
Participants must be of legal age and speak German as their mother tongue.

(e) Compensation for participation
Participants will be reimbursed by the panel company.

M5 Handling of participant drop-out
Only the data of people who have completed the survey will be used.
5
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

M6 Masking of participants and researchers
The survey is anonymous and does not allow any conclusions to be drawn about a person's identity.

M7 Data cleaning and screening
See analysis plan (AP1).

M8 Treatment of missing data
If missing values occur, the MICE algorithm is used as an R package (Wilson, 2021) to fill in missing values.

M9 Other information (optional)
N.A.

M10 Type of study and study design
This is a self-report questionnaire study with a cross-sectional design.

M11 Randomization
None.

M12 Measured variables, manipulated variables, covariates
Predictors: Scales of the 4-CTSQ-D (‘AOT’, ‘PET’, ‘PIT’, ‘CMT’), outcome: cognitive reflection task
(‘CRT’), covariates: age, gender, socioeconomic status based on income per household member,
education and occupational qualification.

M13 Study Materials
The questionnaire consists of:
•

4-CTSQ-D (German translation of the 4-CTSQ by Newton et al., 2024)) with subscales
‘AOT’, ‘CMT’, “PIT”, ‘PET’

•

An extended 10-item version of the CRT (after Frederick, 2005; Newton et al., 2024; Thomson & Oppenheimer, 2016): ‘CRT’
An adapted 14-item version of the Heuristics and Biases Battery (after Toplak et al., 2011):
‘HB’

•

Item code

Type of problem

HB_1

Sample size neglect / law of small numbers

HB_2

Gambler’s fallacy / misunderstanding of independence

HB_3

Conjunction fallacy; representativeness heuristic; base rate
neglect

HB_4

Sample size neglect / misunderstanding of the law of large
numbers

HB_5

Probability matching vs. maximizing
6

Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Item code

Type of problem

HB_6

Sunk cost fallacy

HB_7

Control case for sunk cost (normative choice: no sunk cost)

HB_8

Base rate neglect; anecdotal evidence overweighting;
availability bias

HB_9

Base rate neglect; representativeness heuristic

HB_10

Base rate neglect / confusion of conditional probabilities

HB_11

Ratio bias / denominator neglect

HB_12

Gambler’s fallacy / hot-hand reasoning

HB_13

Outcome bias (positive outcome)

HB_14

Outcome bias (negative outcome)

M14 Study Procedures
The questionnaire will be available online via a non-personalized link.

Analysis plan
AP1 Criteria for post-data collection exclusion of participants
See above.

AP2 Criteria for post-data collection exclusions on trial level
In the CRT participants are asked which – if any – of the problems they were familiar with. Problems
indicated as familiar will be removed from calculating the mean CRT score.

AP3 Data preprocessing
After the data collection, the data set with numerical and verbal responses will be downloaded
from Qualtrics as a .csv and a .sav file. The data is aggregated in ‘R’ (R Core Team, 2021). The aggregated data is statistically analyzed using JASP (JASP Team, 2025).

Scale and subscale scores
For the CTSQ subscale averages will be calculated for AOT, PIT, CMT, and PET. For the CRT and
the HB, the average proportion of correct responses will be calculated. All averaged values will be
z-transformed. Socio-economic status (SES) will be calculated as the sum of the averages of the ztransformed variables income per household member, education, and occupational qualification.

AP6 Statistical models
We will calculate two Bayesian multiple regression in JASP with outcomes CRT and HB and the
four CTSQ subscales as predictors. Covariates age, SES, and gender will also be entered as predictors.

7
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D
The Bayesian linear regression will use JASP’s default JZS priors on all regression coefficients (rscale = 0.354), a beta–binomial model prior with parameters α = 1 and β = 1 for model space, and
a g-prior with α = 3 for model averaging.
To check the requirements for a linear regression, independence, uniform distribution and normal
distribution of the residuals, ‘Residuals vs. fitted’ and ‘Q-Q plot of model averaged residuals’ are
selected in the section “Plots”. The resulting outputs ‘Residuals vs Fitted’ and ‘Q-Q Plot’ are then
checked visually. For independent and equally distributed residuals, the residuals in the ‘Residual
vs Fitted’ graph are distributed around the zero line. For normally distributed residuals, the points in
the ‘Q-Q Plot’ graph lie on the red line.
Here is the JASP code for the model with the JASP default values.:
jaspRegression::RegressionLinearBayesian(
version = “0.19.2”,
formula = CRT_z ~ AOT_Mean_z + PET_Mean_z + PIT_Mean_z + CMT_Mean_z + SES + age_z + gender_z,
bayesFactorOrder = "nullModelTop",
bayesFactorType = "BF10",
bernoulliParam = 0.5,
betaBinomialParamA = 1,
betaBinomialParamB = 1,
castilloParamU = 1,
effectsType = "allModels",
gPriorAlpha = 3,
inclusionProbabilitiesPlot = FALSE,
jzsRScale = 0.354,
modelPrior = "betaBinomial",
numericalAccuracy = 1000,
priorRegressionCoefficients = "jzs",
qqPlot = TRUE,
samplingMethod = "bas",
summaryType = "averaged",
wilsonParamLambda = 1)

For the HB outcome:
formula = HB_z ~ AOT_Mean_z + PET_Mean_z + PIT_Mean_z + CMT_Mean_z + SES + age_z + gender_z,

AP7 Inference criteria
The classification scheme shown in Table 1 is used to interpret the results (Lee & Wagenmakers,
2013). To accept an H1, it is specified that the Bayes factor BFincl for the respective predictor must
show at least moderate evidence for H1. The 95 % credible interval is used to test the direction of
the hypotheses. Hence, positive values indicate a positive influence on the respective criterion.
That is, an effect will be interpreted as credible if BFincl >3 and as credibly absent if BFincl < 1/3. In
Table 1: Interpretation scheme of Bayes Faktors (BF10)

Bayes Factor
> 100
30 – 100
10 – 30

Evidence category
Extreme Evidence for H1
Very strong Evidence for H1
Strong Evidence for H1
8

Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D
3 – 10
1–3
1
1/3 – 1
1/10 – 1/3
1/30 – 1/10
1/100 – 1/30
< 1/100

Moderate Evidence for H1
Anecdotal Evidence for H1
No Evidence
Anecdotal Evidence for H0
Moderate Evidence for H0
Strong Evidence for H0
Very strong Evidence for H0
Extreme Evidence for H0

AP8 Exploratory analysis (optional)
No exploratory analyses are conducted.

AP9 Other information (optional)
N.A.

9
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

References
Evans, J. S. B. T. & Stanovich, K. E. (2013). Dual-process theories of higher cognition: Advancing
the debate. Perspectives on Psychological Science, 8(3), 223–
241. https://doi.org/10.1177/1745691612460685
Frederick, S. (2005). Cognitive reflection and decision making. Journal of Economic Perspectives,
19(4), 25–42. https://doi.org/10.1257/089533005775196732
JASP Team. (2024). JASP (Version 0.19.3) [Computer software].
Lee, M. D. & Wagenmakers, E.-J. (2013). Bayesian cognitive modeling: A practical course.
Cambridge Univ. Press. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9781139087759
Newton, C., Feeney, J. & Pennycook, G. (2024). On the Disposition to Think Analytically: Four
Distinct Intuitive-Analytic Thinking Styles. Personality & Social Psychology Bulletin, 50(6),
906–923. https://doi.org/10.1177/01461672231154886
Pennycook, G., Fugelsang, J. A. & Koehler, D. J. (2015). What makes us think? A three-stage
dual-process model of analytic engagement. Cognitive Psychology, 80, 34–
72. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogpsych.2015.05.001
Qualtrics. (2025). Qualtrics. https://www.qualtrics.com
R Core Team. (2021). R: A language and environment for statistical computing [Computer
software]. R Foundation for Statistical Computing. https://www.R-project.org/
Thompson, V. A. (2009). Dual-process theories: A metacognitive perspective. In J. S. B. T. Evans
& K. Frankish (Hrsg.), In two minds: Dual processes and beyond (S. 171–196). Oxford
University Press. https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199230167.003.0008
Thomson, K. S. & Oppenheimer, D. M. (2016). Investigating an alternate form of the cognitive
reflection test. Judgment and Decision Making, 11(1), 99–
113. https://doi.org/10.1037/t49856-000
Wilson, S. (2021, September 6). The MICE Algorithm. Cran.r.project. https://cran.rproject.org/web/packages/miceRanger/vignettes/miceAlgorithm.html

10
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Appendix
Items in the CRT
•

Original Item (German)

English Translation

Mark und Adam sind insgesamt 28 Jahre alt. Mark ist 20
Jahre älter als Adam. Wie alt ist Adam in Jahren? (Bitte
nur die Ziffern angeben) Alter:
Wenn 10 Drucker 10 Sekunden brauchen, um 10 Seiten
Papier auszudrucken, wie viele Sekunden brauchen dann
50 Drucker, um 50 Seiten Papier auszudrucken? (Bitte
nur die Ziffern angeben) Sekunden:
Auf einem Laib Brot ist ein Schimmelfleck. Jeden Tag
verdoppelt sich die Größe des Flecks. Wenn es 40 Tage
dauert, bis der Fleck den ganzen Brotlaib bedeckt, wie
viele Tage würde es dann dauern, bis der Fleck die Hälfte
des Brotes bedeckt? (Bitte nur die Ziffern angeben)
Wenn man ein Rennen läuft und die Person auf dem
zweiten Platz überholt, auf welchem Platz ist man dann?
(Bitte nur die Ziffern angeben)
Ein Bauer hatte 15 Schafe und alle bis auf 8 sind gestorben. Wie viele sind übrig geblieben? (Bitte nur die Ziffern
angeben)
Emilys Vater hat drei Töchter. Die ersten beiden heißen
April und Mai. Wie heißt die dritte Tochter? (Bitte nur einen Namen angeben)
Wie viele Kubikmeter Erde sind in einem Loch, welches 3
Meter tief, 3 Meter breit und 3 Meter lang ist? (Bitte nur
die Ziffern angeben)
In einer Sportmannschaft gewinnen große Personen dreimal so häufig eine Goldmedaille wie kleine Personen. Dieses Jahr hat die Mannschaft 60 Medaillen gewonnen.
Wie viele davon haben die kleinen Personen gewonnen?
Du hast nur ein Streichholz und gehst in einen dunklen
Raum, in dem sich eine Öllampe, eine Zeitung und Feuerholz befinden. Was zündest du zuerst an?
Sie haben soeben 10 Textaufgaben bearbeitet. Wie viele
davon haben Sie Ihrer Einschätzung nach richtig beantwortet? 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
Haben Sie eine dieser 10 Aufgaben schon einmal gesehen? Ja, Nein, Weiß nicht
Bitte beantworten Sie diese Frage wahrheitsgemäß. Ihre
Antwort ist anonym, wie alle anderen Antworten. Auch
bekommen Sie keinen Nachteil, sollten Sie Hilfsmittel verwendet haben. Welche Hilfsmittel haben Sie verwendet,
um die Fragen zu beantworten? Keine Hilfsmittel, Suchmaschine (z.B. Google), Sprachmodell (z.B. chatGPT),
andere

Mark and Adam are together 28 years old. Mark is 20
years older than Adam. How old is Adam in years?
(Please provide digits only) Age:
If 10 printers take 10 seconds to print 10 pages, how
many seconds do 50 printers need to print 50 pages?
(Please provide digits only) Seconds:
There is a mold spot on a loaf of bread. Each day the
spot doubles in size. If it takes 40 days until the spot covers the entire loaf, how many days would it take for the
spot to cover half of the loaf? (Please provide digits only)
If you are running a race and overtake the person in second place, what place are you in? (Please provide digits
only)
A farmer had 15 sheep and all but 8 died. How many remain? (Please provide digits only)
Emily’s father has three daughters. The first two are
named April and May. What is the name of the third
daughter? (Please provide one name)
How many cubic meters of soil are in a hole that is 3 meters deep, 3 meters wide, and 3 meters long? (Please
provide digits only)
In a sports team, tall people win gold medals three times
as often as short people. This year, the team won 60
medals. How many of these were won by the short people?
You have only one match and enter a dark room in which
there is an oil lamp, a newspaper, and firewood. What do
you light first?
You have just completed 10 text problems. How many of
them do you believe you answered correctly? 0, 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
Have you seen any of these 10 problems before? Yes,
No, Don’t know
Please answer this question truthfully. Your answer is
anonymous, like all other answers. You will not be disadvantaged if you used aids. Which aids did you use to answer the questions? No aids, Search engine (e.g.,
Google), Language model (e.g., ChatGPT), Other

11
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Items in the Heuristics and Biases battery
Item (German)

Item (English translation)

HB_Inst Im nächsten Abschnitt bearbeiten Sie mehrere
Denkaufgaben, in denen es um Wahrscheinlichkeiten,
Urteile und Entscheidungen geht. Oft gibt es eine objektiv
bessere Antwort, verlassen Sie sich aber auf Ihr eigenes
Urteil und Ihre Intuition. Nutzen Sie keine Hilfsmittel (z. B.
Taschenrechner, Internet).

HB_Inst In the next section, you will work on several
thinking problems involving probabilities, judgments, and
decisions. Often there is an objectively better answer, but
please rely on your own judgment and intuition. Do not use
any aids (e.g., calculator, internet).

HB_1 Eine Stadt wird von zwei Krankenhäusern versorgt.
Im größeren Krankenhaus werden täglich etwa 45 Babys HB_1 A city is served by two hospitals. In the larger
geboren und im kleineren Krankenhaus etwa 15 Babys pro hospital, about 45 babies are born each day, and in the
Tag. Durchschnittlich sind 50 Prozent aller Babys Jungen. smaller hospital about 15 babies per day. On average, 50
Der genaue Prozentsatz schwankt jedoch von Tag zu Tag. percent of all babies are boys. However, the exact
Manchmal ist er höher als 50 Prozent, manchmal niedriger. percentage varies from day to day. Sometimes it is higher
Über einen Zeitraum von einem Jahr hat jedes
than 50 percent, sometimes lower. Over a period of one
Krankenhaus die Tage aufgezeichnet, an denen mehr als year, each hospital recorded the days on which more than
60 Prozent der Neugeborenen Jungen waren. Welches
60 percent of the newborns were boys. Which hospital do
Krankenhaus verzeichnete Ihrer Meinung nach mehr
you think recorded more such days?o The larger hospitalo
solcher Tage?o Das größere Krankenhauso Das kleinere
The smaller hospitalo Both about the same (i.e., they do
Krankenhauso Beide ungefähr gleich (d. h. sie weichen
not differ by more than 5 percent)
nicht mehr als 5 Prozent voneinander ab)
HB_2 Stellen Sie sich vor, wir werfen eine faire Münze (eine
Münze, bei der die Wahrscheinlichkeit, dass sie Kopf oder HB_2 Imagine we toss a fair coin (a coin for which the
Zahl zeigt, 50:50 beträgt). Diese Münze ist gerade 5 Mal
probability of heads or tails is 50:50). This coin has just
hintereinander auf Kopf gefallen. Was glauben Sie: Beim 6. landed on heads 5 times in a row. What do you think: On
Wurf…o ...ist es wahrscheinlicher, dass Zahl herauskommt the 6th toss…o ...it is more likely that tails will come up
als Kopf.o ...ist es wahrscheinlicher, dass Kopf
than heads.o ...it is more likely that heads will come up
herauskommt als Zahl.o ...sind Kopf und Zahl gleich
than tails.o ...heads and tails are equally likely.
wahrscheinlich.
HB_3 Linda ist 31 Jahre alt, ledig, aufgeschlossen und
HB_3 Linda is 31 years old, single, outgoing, and very
sehr intelligent. Sie hat Philosophie studiert. Als Studentin
intelligent. She studied philosophy. As a student, she was
beschäftigte sie sich intensiv mit Fragen der
heavily involved with issues of discrimination and social
Diskriminierung und sozialen Gerechtigkeit und nahm auch
justice and also took part in Fridays for Future
an Fridays for Future Demonstrationen teil. Welche
demonstrations. Which statement is more likely?o Linda is
Aussage ist wahrscheinlicher?o Linda ist Bankangestellte.o
a bank employee.o Linda is a bank employee and is active
Linda ist Bankangestellte und engagiert sich in der
in the women’s movement.
Frauenbewegung.
HB_4 Zwei Tischtennisspieler (Spieler A und Spieler B)
HB_4 Two table tennis players (player A and player B) are
überlegen, ob sie ein Spiel bis 9 oder bis 15 Punkte spielen considering whether to play a game to 9 points or to 15
sollen. Spieler A ist der bessere Spieler. Bei welcher der
points. Player A is the better player. In which of the two
beiden Spielformen hat Spieler A eine größere Chance zu formats does player A have a higher chance of winning?o
gewinnen?o 9o 15o Bei beiden Spielformen sind die
9o 15o In both formats, A’s chances of winning are the
Gewinnchancen für A gleich
same.
HB_5 Ein Würfel hat 4 rote und 2 grüne Seiten und wird 60 HB_5 A die has 4 red and 2 green sides and is rolled 60
Mal geworfen. Sie werden vor jedem Wurf gefragt, welche times. Before each roll you are asked which color will be
Farbe geworfen wird. Für jede richtige Vorhersage
rolled. For every correct prediction you receive 5 euros.
bekommen Sie 5 Euro. Welche der folgenden Strategien
Which of the following strategies would you choose?o I
würden Sie wählen?o Ich würde mich auf mein
would rely on my gut feeling. If one color appears too
Bauchgefühl verlassen. Wenn eine Farbe zu häufig
often, I change my prediction.o I choose the more likely
erscheint, ändere ich meine Vorhersage.o Ich wähle die
red color most of the time. After a long series of red,

12
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Item (German)

Item (English translation)

meiste Zeit die wahrscheinlichere rote Farbe. Nach einer
however, I sometimes predict green.o I make my
langen Serie von Rot sage ich aber auch manchmal Grün predictions according to the frequencies (4 out of 6 for red;
vorher.o Ich mache die Vorhersage entsprechend der
2 out of 6 for green). That is, I predict red twice as often as
Häufigkeit des Auftretens (4 von 6 für Rot; 2 von 6 für
green.o For all 60 rolls, I predict the color red.
Grün). Das bedeutet, ich sage doppelt so häufig rote Würfe
wie grüne vorher.o Bei allen 60 Würfen sage ich die Farbe
Rot vorher.
HB_6 Sie übernachten in einem Hotel. Sie haben 6,95
Euro bezahlt, um einen Film im Pay-TV zu sehen. Nach 5
Minuten merken Sie, dass der Film langweilig ist. Würden
Sie den Film weiter anschauen oder nicht?o Ich schaue
den Film weitero Ich mache den Film aus

HB_6 You are spending the night in a hotel. You paid 6.95
euros to watch a movie on pay TV. After 5 minutes, you
realize that the movie is boring. Would you continue
watching the movie or not?o I continue watching the
movie.o I turn off the movie.

HB_7 Sie übernachten in einem Hotel. Sie schalten den
Fernseher ein und es läuft ein Film. Nach 5 Minuten
merken Sie, dass der Film langweilig ist. Würden Sie den
Film weiter anschauen oder nicht?o Ich schaue den Film
weitero Ich mache den Film aus

HB_7 You are spending the night in a hotel. You turn on
the television and a movie is playing. After 5 minutes, you
realize that the movie is boring. Would you continue
watching the movie or not?o I continue watching the
movie.o I turn off the movie.

HB_8 Die Müllers wollen beim nächsten Autokauf ein
sicheres und langlebiges schwedisches Auto: entweder
HB_8 The Müllers want their next car to be a safe and
einen Volvo oder einen Saab. Ihr altes Auto geht genau am
long-lasting Swedish car: either a Volvo or a Saab. Their
letzten Tag eines Sonderrabattes kaputt, der für Volvo und
old car breaks down exactly on the last day of a special
Saab gilt. Ab morgen fällt der Rabatt weg, also müssen sie
discount that applies to both Volvo and Saab. The
sich heute entscheiden. Beide Autos kosten in etwa gleich
discount ends tomorrow, so they have to decide today.
viel. In Verbraucherberichten lesen sie: Beide Marken
Both cars cost roughly the same. In consumer reports they
gelten als sehr zuverlässig, aber Volvo wird als etwas
read: Both brands are considered very reliable, but Volvo is
besser eingestuft und Volvo-Besitzer berichten insgesamt
rated slightly better and Volvo owners report fewer
von weniger Problemen als Saab-Besitzer. Bevor sie zum
problems overall than Saab owners. Before they go to the
Volvo-Händler fahren, rufen sie drei Freunde an: Die zwei
Volvo dealer, they call three friends: The two Saab owners
Saab-Besitzer berichten von kleineren, aber nicht
report minor, but not serious, problems. The Volvo owner,
schlimmen Problemen. Der Volvo-Besitzer dagegen
however, answers angrily: “First, an expensive computer
antwortet wütend: „Erst ging ein teures Computerteil der
part in the fuel injection failed, then there were problems
Einspritzung kaputt, dann gab es Probleme mit dem Heck,
with the rear end, then with the transmission and the
danach mit Getriebe und Kupplung.“ Nach drei Jahren hat
clutch.” After three years he finally sold the Volvo as scrap.
er den Volvo schließlich als Schrott verkauft. Angesichts
Given that the Müllers will buy either a Volvo or a Saab
dessen, dass die Müllers heute entweder einen Volvo oder
today, what do you think they should buy?o They should
einen Saab kaufen werden: Was sollten sie Ihrer Meinung
definitely buy a Saab.o They should rather buy a Saab.o
nach kaufen?o Sie sollten auf jeden Fall einen Saab
They should rather buy a Volvo.o They should definitely
kaufen.o Sie sollten eher einen Saab kaufen.o Sie sollten
buy a Volvo.
eher einen Volvo kaufen.o Sie sollten auf jeden Fall einen
Volvo kaufen.
HB_9 An einer kleinen Universität studieren 4 von 5
Studierenden Psychologie und 1 von 5 Philosophie. Sie
lesen folgenden Text über Anna: „Anna liest gern
anspruchsvolle Literatur und diskutiert viel über Ethik und
Sinnfragen.“ Was ist wahrscheinlicher?o Anna studiert
Psychologieo Anna studiert Philosophie

HB_9 At a small university, 4 out of 5 students study
psychology and 1 out of 5 philosophy. You read the
following description of Anna: “Anna likes to read
demanding literature and often discusses questions of
ethics and the meaning of life.” Which is more likely?o
Anna studies psychology.o Anna studies philosophy.

HB_10 Auf einer Party sind 4 männliche Professoren und 8
HB_10 At a party there are 4 male professors and 8 male
männliche Führungskräfte. Von den 4 Professoren sind 3
managers. Of the 4 professors, 3 are members of the
Mitglied im „Bear’s Club“. Von den 8 Führungskräften sind
“Bear’s Club”. Of the 8 managers, 4 are members of the
4 Mitglied im „Bear’s Club“. Sie wissen: David ist Mitglied
“Bear’s Club”. You know that David is a member of the
im „Bear’s Club“. Was ist wahrscheinlicher?o David ist

13
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Item (German)

Item (English translation)

Professoro David ist Führungskrafto Beides ist gleich
wahrscheinlich

“Bear’s Club”. Which is more likely?o David is a
professor.o David is a manager.o Both are equally likely.

HB_11 Vor Ihnen befinden sich zwei Tabletts mit
schwarzen und weißen Murmeln: ein großes Tablett mit
100 Murmeln und ein kleines Tablett mit 10 Murmeln. Die
Murmeln sind in einer einzigen Schicht auf dem Tablett
verteilt. Sie müssen, natürlich ohne hinzusehen, von einem
der Tabletts ziehen. Wenn Sie eine schwarze Murmel
ziehen, gewinnen Sie 5 Euro. Das kleine Tablett enthält 1
schwarze und 9 weiße Murmeln. Das große Tablett enthält
8 schwarze und 92 weiße Murmeln. Von welchem Tablett
würden Sie lieber eine Murmel ziehen?o Aus dem kleinen
Tablett (10 Kugeln)o Aus dem großen Tablett (100 Kugeln)

HB_11 In front of you there are two trays with black and
white marbles: a large tray with 100 marbles and a small
tray with 10 marbles. The marbles are spread out in a
single layer on the tray. You must draw from one of the
trays, of course without looking. If you draw a black
marble, you win 5 euros. The small tray contains 1 black
and 9 white marbles. The large tray contains 8 black and
92 white marbles. From which tray would you prefer to
draw a marble?o From the small tray (10 marbles).o From
the large tray (100 marbles).

HB_12 Beim Spielen an Spielautomaten gewinnt man etwa
HB_12 When playing slot machines, you win on about 1
1 Mal von 10 Versuchen etwas. Julie hat jedoch gerade bei
out of 10 plays. However, Julie has just won on her first
ihren ersten drei Versuchen gewonnen. Wie hoch ist Julies
three plays. What is Julie’s chance of winning on the next
Chance beim nächsten Spiel zu gewinnen? Geben Sie ihre
play? Indicate her chance on a scale from 1 to 10.o 0o 1o
Chance auf einer Skala von 1 bis 10 an.o 0o 1o 2o 3o 4o
2o 3o 4o 5o 6o 7o 8o 9o 10
5o 6o 7o 8o 9o 10
HB_14 Ein 55-jähriger Mann hatte ein Herzleiden. Wegen
Brustschmerzen musste er aufhören zu arbeiten. Er
mochte seine Arbeit und wollte nicht aufhören. Seine
Schmerzen beeinträchtigten auch andere Dinge, wie
Reisen und Freizeitaktivitäten. Eine Bypass-Operation
würde seine Schmerzen lindern und seine
Lebenserwartung von 65 auf 70 Jahre erhöhen. Allerdings
sterben 8 % der Menschen, die sich dieser Operation
unterziehen, an den Folgen der Operation. Fall 1: Sein Arzt
entschied sich, die Operation durchzuführen. Die
Operation ist fehlgeschlagen und der Mann ist gestorben.
Bewerten Sie die Entscheidung des Arztes, die Operation
durchzuführen.o Völlig richtigo Eher richtigo Weder richtig
noch falscho Eher falscho Völlig falsch

HB_14 A 55-year-old man had a heart condition. Because
of chest pain he had to stop working. He liked his job and
did not want to stop. His pain also interfered with other
things, such as traveling and leisure activities. A bypass
operation would relieve his pain and increase his life
expectancy from 65 to 70 years. However, 8% of people
who undergo this operation die as a result of the surgery.
Case 1: His doctor decided to perform the operation. The
operation failed and the man died. Rate the doctor’s
decision to perform the operation.o Completely righto
Rather righto Neither right nor wrongo Rather wrongo
Completely wrong

HB_13 Nun ein sehr ähnlicher Fall: Ein 55-jähriger Mann
HB_13 Now a very similar case: A 55-year-old man had a
hatte ein Herzleiden. Wegen Brustschmerzen musste er
aufhören zu arbeiten. Er mochte seine Arbeit und wollte
heart condition. Because of chest pain he had to stop
nicht aufhören. Seine Schmerzen beeinträchtigten auch
working. He liked his job and did not want to stop. His pain
andere Dinge, wie Reisen und Freizeitaktivitäten. Eine
also interfered with other things, such as traveling and
Bypass-Operation würde seine Schmerzen lindern und
leisure activities. A bypass operation would relieve his pain
seine Lebenserwartung von 65 auf 70 Jahre erhöhen.
and increase his life expectancy from 65 to 70 years.
Allerdings sterben 8 % der Menschen, die sich dieser
However, 8% of people who undergo this operation die as
Operation unterziehen, an den Folgen der Operation. Fall a result of the surgery. Case 2: His doctor decided to
2: Sein Arzt entschied sich, die Operation durchzuführen. perform the operation. The operation was successful. Rate
Die Operation war erfolgreich. Bewerten Sie die
the doctor’s decision to perform the operation.o
Entscheidung des Arztes, die Operation durchzuführen.o Completely righto Rather righto Neither right nor wrongo
Völlig richtigo Eher richtigo Weder richtig noch falscho Eher Rather wrongo Completely wrong
falscho Völlig falsch
HB_hilfsmittel Please answer this question truthfully. Your
HB_hilfsmittel Bitte beantworten Sie diese Frage
wahrheitsgemäß. Ihre Antwort ist anonym, wie alle anderen answer is anonymous, like all the other answers. You will
not be disadvantaged if you used aids. Did you use any
Antworten. Auch bekommen Sie keinen Nachteil, sollten
Sie Hilfsmittel verwendet haben sollten. Haben Sie
aids to answer the questions?▢ I did not use any aids▢

14
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

Pre-registeration– Follow-Up to Translation and Validation of the 4-CTSQ-D

Item (German)

Item (English translation)

Hilfsmittel benutzt, um die Fragen zu beantworten?▢ Ich
Search engine (e.g., Google)▢ Language model (e.g.,
habe keine Hilfsmittel verwendet▢ Suchmaschine (z.B.
ChatGPT)▢ Other, namely:
__________________________________________________
Google)▢ Sprachmodell (z.B. chatGPT)▢ andere und
zwar:
__________________________________________________

15
Department for General Psychology II – Catholic University of Eichstätt- Ingolstadt
Professor M. Zehetleitner

